[REVIEW ONLY] Add written-word drafts since a PR is a good way to review (#4095)
OAI/OpenAPI-Specification: release-notes-3.1.1.md

# Release Notes

> This release makes no changes to the OpenAPI standard, however the formal specification document had multiple improvements, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the 3.1.1 release makes no mechanical changes to the OpenAPI 3.1.0 specification, it does introduce a number of notable improvements, including:
```

> - clarity and expanded explanations including several new appendices with supplementary details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Expands and clarifies a number of explanations, including several new appendices with supplementary details
```

> - examples and additional documentation moved to https://learn.openapis.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Focuses on technical specifics by moving examples and additional documentation now published at https://learn.openapis.org
```

> - the HTML rendering of the specification at https://spec.openapis.org is now considered the authoritative version (formerly it was the Markdown source on GitHub)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Declares that the HTML specifications at https://spec.openapis.org are now the authoritative versions (formerly it was the Markdown source on GitHub)
```

> OpenAPI description writers should mark their OpenAPI descriptions with the version of OpenAPI specification they used to write their specification, updating where possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenAPI description writers should mark their OpenAPI descriptions with the version of the OpenAPI specification they used to write their specification, updating where possible.
```

> OpenAPI description writers should mark their OpenAPI descriptions with the version of OpenAPI specification they used to write their specification, updating where possible.

Reviewer: Why? Can this be explained more?

Tool creators should also not expect changes, but it is recommended to check the list of changes below.

## Clearer Definitions

Introduce consistent language around OpenAPI Document/Description/Definition:
- OpenAPI Description means the OpenAPI description of an API, whether it is in one or many files.

> - a document means a single file.
> - an "entry document" is where the OpenAPI description for an API starts; it may reference other documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A document means a single file.
- An "entry document" is where the OpenAPI description for an API starts; it may reference other documents.
```
All list items end with a period

Improved language regarding schemas, explaining the difference between the OpenAPI schema, the schemas used within the OpenAPI schema, and the use of a non-authoritative JSON Schema to supplement the written spec.

[3.1.1]Added guidance around use of schema dialects.

## References

> Additional guidance for resolving references and parsing documents was added.
> Resolving component names, tags, and operationIds are clarified.
> [3.1.1]The adoption of JSON Schema in 3.1.x changed the parsing and referencing, and a new section was added to cover the changes in more depth than in 3.1.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional guidance for resolving references and parsing documents was added.

Resolving component names, tags, and operationIds are clarified.

[3.1.1]The adoption of JSON Schema in 3.1.x changed the parsing and referencing, and a new section was added to cover the changes in more depth than in 3.1.0.
```

Author: These are a paragraph, the newlines are just for readability and easier editing. Splitting them up like this makes them one paragraph per sentence which might be all right, but is not at all what I was intending. I intentionally grouped related items together. Can we revisit these changes (sorry I didn't manage to review your reviews quicker!)

Reviewer 2: Backed out change.

[3.1.1]Improved explanation of URLs and URIs, and made clear which to use for each URL/URI field.
Clarified that Markdown links are resolved in relation to their rendered context.

## Data Types

> Extensive clarifications on data types and encoding.
> Added a section on handling binary data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extensive clarifications on data types and encoding.

Added a section on handling binary data.
```

## Security

> Added a note that the `security` array that is empty or missing values does not indicate that no security arrangements exist for this API.
> Updated references to other standards where newer versions are available, and added more explanation for OpenIDConnect.
> Added a "Security Concerns" section containing advice for implementers and users of OpenAPI.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Added a note that a `security` array that is empty or missing does not indicate that no security arrangements exist for this API.

Updated references to other standards where newer versions are available, and added more explanation for OpenIDConnect.

Added a "Security Concerns" section containing advice for implementers and users of OpenAPI.
```

## Request Data

> The parameters section was extensively refactored.

Reviewer: Shift away from passive voice?
```suggestion
Extensive refactoring of the parameters section
```
... and consider explaining why?

> Examples were updated, improved and explanations added.

Reviewer: serial comma pedantry (sorry!)
```suggestion
Examples were updated, improved, and explanations added.
```

> Headers have their own section with examples and specific information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Headers have their own section with examples and specific information.
```

> Explanation of OpenAPI `example` and `examples` was expanded and the "Working with Examples" section added with clearer description and examples included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improves and expands on OpenAPI `example` and `examples` and adds a "Working with Examples" section with a clearer description and examples.
```
also, the list of improvements at the top suggests that examples have moved to the learn site, but it sounds like new ones were added here? (Might not be a problem, just observing.)

> Information regarding file uploads, form-urlencoded request bodies and multipart content were expanded and moved to the refactored Encoding Object section to provide better coverage of edge cases and more examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clarifies and expands on file uploads, form-urlencoded request bodies, and multipart content, and moves them to a refactored `Encoding Object` section to provide better coverage of edge cases and more examples.
```

# Release Notes

> While the 3.1.1 release makes no mechanical changes to the OpenAPI 3.1.0 specification, it does introduce a number of notable improvements, including:

Reviewer 3: "mechanical changes" feels a bit odd to me.  I'd use "changes to requirements" or "changes to mandatory requirements" (but I don't feel strongly about this).

> While the 3.1.1 release makes no mechanical changes to the OpenAPI 3.1.0 specification, it does introduce a number of notable improvements, including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the 3.1.1 release makes no changes to requirements of the OpenAPI 3.1.0 specification, it does introduce a number of notable improvements, including:
```

- Expands and clarifies a number of explanations, including several new appendices with supplementary details
- Focuses on technical specifics by moving examples and additional documentation now published at https://learn.openapis.org
- Declares that the HTML specifications at https://spec.openapis.org are now the authoritative versions (formerly it was the Markdown source on GitHub)

> OpenAPI description writers should mark their OpenAPI descriptions with the version of the OpenAPI specification they used to write their specification, updating where possible.

Reviewer 3: Mike's PR standardized on capitalizing "Description" so perhaps we should also do that here.

> OpenAPI description writers should mark their OpenAPI descriptions with the version of the OpenAPI specification they used to write their specification, updating where possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenAPI Description writers should mark their OpenAPI Descriptions with the version of the OpenAPI specification they used to write their specification, updating where possible.
```

Tooling maintainers should expect minimal work to support 3.1.1/3.0.4; however, we recommend checking the list of changes below.

## Clearer Definitions

Introduce consistent language around OpenAPI Document/Description/Definition:
- OpenAPI Description means the OpenAPI description of an API, whether it is in one or many files.
- A document means a single file.

> - An "entry document" is where the OpenAPI description for an API starts; it may reference other documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An "entry document" is where the OpenAPI Description for an API starts; it may reference other documents.
```

# Release Notes

While the 3.1.1 release makes no changes to requirements of the OpenAPI 3.1.0 specification, it does introduce a number of notable improvements, including:
- Expands and clarifies a number of explanations, including several new appendices with supplementary details
- Focuses on technical specifics by moving examples and additional documentation now published at [learn.openapis.org](https://learn.openapis.org)
- Declares that the HTML specifications at [spec.openapis.org](https://spec.openapis.org) are now the authoritative versions (formerly it was the Markdown source on GitHub)

> OpenAPI Description writers should mark their OpenAPI Descriptions with the version of the OpenAPI specification they used to write their specification, updating where possible.

Author: @earth2marsh commented that we needed to expand on this, but his remarks were lost in some of the reformatting. I'm not sure this belongs here in the release notes, should probably be in the announcement post instead.

Reviewer 3: @lornajane agree on any expansion being more suitable for the announcement post.

- Declares that the HTML specifications at https://spec.openapis.org are now the authoritative versions (formerly it was the Markdown source on GitHub)

OpenAPI description writers should mark their OpenAPI descriptions with the version of the OpenAPI specification they used to write their specification, updating where possible.

Tooling maintainers should expect minimal work to support 3.1.1/3.0.4; however, we recommend checking the list of changes below.

## Clearer Definitions

Introduce consistent language around OpenAPI Document/Description/Definition:
- OpenAPI Description means the OpenAPI description of an API, whether it is in one or many files.
- A document means a single file.
- An "entry document" is where the OpenAPI description for an API starts; it may reference other documents.

Improved language regarding schemas, explaining the difference between the OpenAPI schema, the schemas used within the OpenAPI schema, and the use of a non-authoritative JSON Schema to supplement the written spec.

[3.1.1]Added guidance around use of schema dialects.

## References

> Additional guidance for resolving references and parsing documents was added.
> 
> Resolving component names, tags, and operationIds are clarified.
> 
> [3.1.1]The adoption of JSON Schema in 3.1.x changed the parsing and referencing, and a new section was added to cover the changes in more depth than in 3.1.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional guidance for resolving references and parsing documents was added, resolving component names, tags, and operationIds are clarified.
[3.1.1]The adoption of JSON Schema in 3.1.x changed the parsing and referencing, and a new section was added to cover the changes in more depth than in 3.1.0.
```
